This is a "plugin" for the Video Disk Recorder (VDR).

Original freecell-plugin written by:
	Sascha Volkenandt <sascha at akv-soft dot de>

Modified to write solitaire-plugin by:
	Patrick Maier <maierp at gmx dot net>

Project's homepage:
	http://www.djdagobert.com/vdr/solitaire

Latest version available at:
	http://www.djdagobert.com/vdr/solitaire

See the file COPYING for license information.

Description:

This solitaire plugin is an implementation of the (well-known) card game 
"Solitaire" played on the On Screen Display of your Video Disk Recorder.

After installing the plugin, you have to copy the solitaire folder from the 
plugin's source directory to the plugins folder inside the configuration folder
of VDR. If you don't specify a configuration folder, your videodir is used. 
Example:
/video0/plugins/solitaire/cursor.xpm

Upon starting the game by selecting it from the main menu the cursor (a hand- 
shaped blue symbol) is shown over the top card of the leftmost stack. The game
is played with the cursor keys and OK. Blue starts a new game, and Back ends 
the running game session.

To navigate the stacks, use the Left and Right keys. You can grab a card by 
pressing OK. While one or more cards are grabbed, the cursor is yellow, and the
grabbed card(s) is/are floating a little "above" the other cards. When there's
a possibility to grab more than one card in one stack, the message "Select 
Stack" will be displayed, and you can select which cards to add or remove 
to/from your grabbed cards by pressing Up or Down. Confirm your selection by
pressing OK. Now you can move a selected
stack left and right, but only if this is possible (i.e. the target stack 
matches card order or the stack the grabbed cards are initially from). To
drop a stack to its target, press OK (be careful as you can't go back once 
you've moved the cards).  If you have selected one single card, you can also 
put it on one of the four target places in the right order (ace, two - king)
and the right shape, by pressing Up and dropping it with OK. Up there you 
can navigate, too, grab a card and press Down to move it to a stack. Again this
works only if a possible target stack is available. Of course, you can navigate
up and down also if you have no card grabbed. On the top-left you have a closed
and open stack. You can get a new card from the open stack like selecting a card
from the other stacks. If you like a new card to be opened to the open stack,
simply move the cursor to the closed stack and press the OK button. If the
closed stack is empty you can press OK again and the cards on the open stack
are taken for the closed stack.

During the game, press any color or number key to get a Quick Help Screen.

