
This is a plugin for VDR.
The "MP3-Plugin" allows playback of MP3 audio files.

Original written by:
Written by:                  Stefan Hülswitt <s.huelswitt@gmx.de>
Project's homepage:          http://www.muempf.de/
Latest version available at: http://www.muempf.de/down/

See the file COPYING for license information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

For install instructions see the README file.
 
****
****
**** MP3 plugin
****
****

The basic concept of the MP3 plugin is to use playlists for the songs you want
to play. So most things designed toward playlists, but you can play directories
and single files as well.

The starting point for all MP3 actions (or more generally: all song actions)
is the MP3 menu. Select the MP3 entry from VDR's main menu to enter
this menu.

The MP3 menu:
-------------

If you enter the browser you can browser through your song files. You can
start playback for individual files, playlists and whole directories from here
too.

Position on a file or directory and select "red" to start playback. A "instant"
playlist is created which contains either the selected file or all files from
the selected directory and its subdirectories. When scanning directories, all
files matching "*.m3u" (playlists) are ignored. The "instant" playlist is
deleted if you stop playback.

In the basedir you can press "yellow" to play all files in all directories.
Press "blue" over an entry to display the song information page.

If you press exit in the base dir you will get into the playlist mode (There
is a switch to set the Playlist mode as default if you like).
A list of available playlists is displayed (only playlists in your base
directory of the selected source are displayed, there is no recursive scanning
for playlists). Select the a playlist with "up" and "down". Press "OK" to start
playback with the selected playlist.

Press the "blue" key to see a second level of buttons. If you are on the second
level, press the "red" button to return to the first level.

If you are on the first level, press "red" to enter the playlist editor with
the selected playlist (see Playlist editor). Press "green" to enter the source
selector (see Sources). Press "yellow" to enter the file browser (see Browsing
and instant playlists).

On the second level, press "green" to create a new, empty playlist and enter
the playlist editor. The new playlist will be named "unnamed" followed by a
number. Press "yellow" to delete a playlist. There is a double confirmation
needed to really delete the playlist. Press "blue" to rename a playlist. You
are prompted for a new name. Press "back" to abort renaming.

During playback:
----------------

During playback you will see the channel which was tuned last or a black screen
depending on what you choose in setup (see Setup options). You can use some
keys to control playback:

Up          skips back to the start of current song or to previous song if you
            are at the beginning of current song.

Down        skips forward to the start of next song.

Right/Left  skips back/forward 30 seconds in current song. Hold key to scan
            through song.

Red         enters jump mode. Enter the number of minutes/seconds you want to
            jump with the number keys. Press "left" to jump backwards, "right"
            to jump forward and "up" to jump to the absolute position. Press
            "blue" to toggle the jump unit between minute (m) and seconds (s).
            Any other key cancels jump mode.
            Note: jumping forward requires to scan all frame headers until
            the new position. On slow media or with long jumps this may be
            visible in the progress display.

Green       toggles loop and shuffle mode. Press once to enable loop, twice for
            loop and shuffle and three times for shuffle only. To disable
            shuffle, wait >4 seconds and press again.

Yellow      is pause/unpause.

Blue        aborts playback.

Back        aborts playback and returns to MP3 menu.

Ok          toggles progress display. If "ok" is pressed again within 4
            seconds, the playlist window is opened (playlist window is
            available with classic progress display mode only). The color bar
            marks the current song. If the playlist window is open, you can
            page through the playlist with "left" and "right". If available
            title/artist is displayed. This is true for songs already played or
            which have been scanned in background (see Setup options).

Menu        enters VDR's main menu.

0-9         direct song selection. Selection timeout is 1 second.

The progress display shows various information bits which are flipped every few
seconds. You can adjust which information is shown (see Setup options).

The playlist editor:
--------------------

In the playlist editor you can add and remove files and shuffle them around.

Press "red" to add songs to the playlist. A directory browser is started. You
will see the directories and files you created beneath you the base directory
of the current source. The entries surrounded by [ ] are directories. If you
press "ok" on a directory, you will decent to this directory. Press "red" to
add the current file/directory to the playlist. Selecting a directory adds
recursively all files from the directory and subdirectories. If you have
selected more than one file, you have to confirm the action. The new file(s)
will be inserted below the currently selected file in the playlist.

Press "green" to toggle between display of filenames and titles/artists (if
available). The initial display of title/artist may take some time as all the
files have to be scanned. You can configure if the editor is started with
title/artist or filename display (see Setup options). Press "ok" over an entry
to display a information page for this file.

Song information which have been scanned in the playlist editor or during
playback are saved to a file called "id3info.cache" located in the video
directory. This file is used to speed up display of title/artist for files you
already touched. The file is loaded on startup and saved regularly while VDR is
running.

Press "yellow" to remove a song from the playlist (the file IS NOT removed from
disk, of course). Press "blue" to reorder the songs in the playlist.

Sources and playlists:
----------------------

You can define multiple sources from which your songs could be played. At
runtime you can select which source to use, you can mount, unmount and eject
the source at runtime, too. This is done through a config file and a simple
shell script.

First you have to create a config file named "mp3sources.conf" located in the
"plugins" subdirectory of the directory where you keep the other config files
for VDR (e.g. the default on the M7x0 file system is 
"/etc/vdr/plugins/mp3sources.conf").

Every line defines a source (see the example config file which comes with the
archive). You need three information for a source: the base directory, a
description and a flag which determines if a mount/unmount/eject command is
applicable to this source. Optionally you can give a fourth information to
specify which kind of files should be used on this source. The fields must be
separated by a semicolon. The basedir must be a real directory. Using a symlink
to a directory will not work.

So a valid line could be:
  /mp3;Local files;0
This means that the base directory is /mp3, the description say that these are
local files and mount/unmount/eject commands can not be applied here.

If you want to ignore all files without the ".mp3" extension, you could use:
  /mp3;Local files;0;*.mp3
You can give multiple patterns separated with a slash:
  /mp3;Local files;0;*.mp3/*.url

Another useful one:
  /cdrom;CDROM;1
This means that the base directory is /cdrom, which is obviously a CDROM drive
and mount/unmount/eject commands can be applied here.

Note some important things for using mount/unmount/eject commands here:
 - You must have defined an entry in your /etc/fstab for the base directory.
 - The user running VDR must have permission to mount/unmount the device (e.g.
   add "users" to the options in /etc/fstab).
 - You must have a mount script which can be called from VDR (see below).

The actual mount/unmount/eject action is done with a script. See the README
file and the example "mount.sh" which comes with the archive.

You can create arbitrary directories below the base directory to group your
songs. BUT all playlists have to be located in the base directory (the tree is
not scanned recursively for playlists).

A playlist is a simple text file which contains the paths of the songs to play.
One path/filename on every line. The paths must be relative to the base
directory (e.g. if you have a MP3 file /mp3/rock/bon_jovi/sample.mp3 a proper
line in a playlist would be rock/bon_jovi/sample.mp3). All playlist must have
the extension ".m3u".

You also can load WinAmp-style playlists, this means that comment lines
starting with "#" are ignored and if a line "#EXTM3U" is found, the pathnames
are converted from DOS-style to UNIX-style (changing "\" to "/"). The DOS-style
pathnames must not contain "/" for proper conversion.

The sources menu:
-----------------

If you enter this menu, you will get the list of the sources which you have
defined in "mp3sources.conf". Entries marked with ">" can be mounted/unmounted.
An entry marked with "*" is currently mounted.

Use the "red" key to select a source. All playback and editing functions will
refer only to the selected source. Press "green" to mount the source, "yellow"
to unmount and "blue" to eject the media.

Setup options:
--------------

There are various configuration options which can be changed from the plugin
setup menu. Select VDR's setup menu, select "Plugins" and select "mp3" to enter
the setup menu.

Display mode:         Choose which information is shown in the progress
                      display:
                        1 - shows only title and artist.
                        2 - additionally shows album and year.
                        3 - additionally shows samplerate, bitrate and number
                            of channels.

Background mode:      Choose what you want to see during playback:
                      Black  - a black screen
                      Images - display cover images (if available)

Initial loop mode:    Choose if loop mode should be enabled by default.

Initial shuffle mode: Choose if shuffle mode should be enabled by default.

Abort player at end of list: If you set this option to "no" and the end of
                      playlist is reached, the player is kept idle. To restart
                      playback select a song to restart from there or "up" to
                      restart from the beginning.

Background mode:      Choose if the background scanner is enabled during
                      playback. In the playlist window, title/artist is shown
                      only for songs already played or which have been scanned
                      in background. This is done on a separate thread with
                      nice 5 but nevertheless it needs CPU cycles. If you have
                      a slow CPU your system may crawl.

Editor display mode:  Choose if the playlist editor shows title/artist or
                      filenames by default. Be warned: the initial display of
                      the title/artist may take some time, as all the files in
                      the playlist have to be scanned. This is specially true
                      for slower storage media.

Main menu mode:       Choose if you want to see your playlists or if you want
                      to jump to the directory browser when entering the MP3
                      menu.

Use HTTP proxy:       Enables use of a HTTP proxy server when playing
                      Shoutcast/Icecast streams.

HTTP proxy host:      The hostname of the HTTP proxy (used only if you have
                      enabled HTTP proxy option above).

HTTP proxy port:      The port number to use on the HTTP proxy server (used
                      only if you have enabled HTTP proxy option above).


Playing Shoutcast/Icecast streams:
----------------------------------

The plugin is able to play Shoutcast and Icecast streams (which in fact are
just streamed MP3's). This feature needs some special setup:

First, your VDR machine must have a connection to the internet (either directly
or through a proxy).

Second, you have to create a simple text file with the extetion .url in any of 
your MP3 source directories for every stream you want to play. The file must 
contain a single line of text with the complete URL of the stream. E.g. the 
file could contain (no guarantee that this link still works):
http://152.163.134.164:80/stream/1012

You can find some examples in the in the examples folder:
http://www.open7x0.org/svnweb/vdr-m7x0-PLUGINS/browse/branches/unstable/mp3/examples

The link must point to the stream itself and not to any kind of playlist.

To play the stream, add the text file to a playlist or select the file from the
browser. You cannot pause, FWD or REW a stream.

Note:
- If you internet connection doesn't provides the bandwidth the stream
  requires, playback will be distorted.
- Any network operation has a timeout of 30 seconds (in case the stream server
  stalls). You should not set VDR's watchdog timer below this value.
- If the stream server provides special Icecast headers or metadata, these
  values are displayed in the progress display.

