This is a "plugin" for the Video Disk Recorder (VDR).

Written by:                  Marcel Wiesweg <marcel.wiesweg@gmx.de>

Project's homepage:          http://www.wiesweg-online.de/linux/vdr

Latest version available at: http://projects.vdr-developer.org/projects/show/plg-osdteletext

See the file COPYING for license information.

Description:

Osd-Teletext displays the teletext directly on the OSD.
Both sound and video are played in the background. 


Keys:
     1,...,9: insert page number
     Up:      page+
     Down:    page-
     Right:   sub page+
     Left:    sub page-
     Back:    close teletext plugin

   All other user interaction ("Actions") is configurably assigned to the other
   available keys.
   You can e.g. configure that you jump to page 100 when you press Red.
   In this example, the Action "Jump to 100" is assigned to key "Red".
   Have a look at the plugin's setup page to learn the current assignment
   and adapt it to your needs.

   Available Keys: Blue, Red, Yellow, Green, Play, Stop, FastFwd, FastRwd
   Actions: "Zoom", "Half page", "Switch channel", "Switch background",
            "Jump to..." a specific page.

   Description of the actions:
     Zoom:          Zoom to upper half/lower half/back to full page
     Half Page:     Reduce OSD window to the lower half of the screen and
                    display upper half/lower half/back to full size
     Switch channel:Show pages of a channel different from the one currently
                    tuned to. This does _not_ include any tuning or channel
                    switching with vdr's core. You must have tuned to the
                    channel chosen some time before so that the pages have
                    been stored on disk. When you press the key associated
                    with that action, you are asked for the channel number.
                    Press OK after you entered it with the number keys.
     Jump to...:    Jumps to the page you configure.
     Switch background: Toggles background transparency between a value
                    configured in setup, fully black, and fully transparent.

   How to configure the key bindings:
   In the plugins setup menu, you can assign one of actions to each key.
   You can choose freely which actions you need, you are not forced to assign
   an action to a key at all if you do not need it.
   If you select "Jump to...", specify the page number in the line immediately
   below.


Other Setup options:
   Background transparency: 
               number between 0 (transparent) and 255 (black). Default is 127
               (also used by VDR)
   Show Clock: Toggles whether an additional clock is drawn approximately
               every second.
               The clock shows the current system time, not any time broadcast
               via teletext. Let VDR set the system time from a transponder to
               have the exact time.
   Auto-update pages: 
               Continuously checks whether a page has changed and updates it
               if yes.
   OSD width, OSD height: 
               Adjusts the width and height of the OSD independent from VDR's
               settings. The valid range is 40 to 56 for the width and 12 to
               21 for the height.
   Minimum user inactivity: 
               Sets a timeout (in minutes) for user inactivity. When this
               timespan has elapsed and the user did not press any keys, the
               plugin will be closed. Set to 0 to disable this. Note that
               disabling timeout will also effectively disable VDR's
               auto-shutdown feature as long as the plugin is active.
   Key bindings:      See above.

Command line options:
   A few settings are given on the command line rather than in the setup menu.
   Available options:

     -d        --directory=DIR    The directory where the temporary
                                  files will be stored.
                                  (default: /var/cache/vdr/vtx)
                                  Ensure that the directory exists and is
                                  writable.
     -n        --max-cache=NUM    Maximum size in megabytes of cache used
                                  to store the pages on the harddisk.
                                  (default: a calculated value below 50 MB)
     -s        --cache-system=SYS Set the cache system to be used.
                                  Choose "legacy" for the traditional
                                  one-file-per-page system.
                                  Default is "packed" for the 
                                  one-file-for-a-few-pages system.

Colors:
  On all sorts of output devices which are not limited as to color depth
  the original teletext colors will be displayed. (Only difference: Cyan is
  used instead of white to make reading easier).
  On the classic full-featured DVB card and other limited devices, the colors
  will be reduced to four.
  The mapping is currently optimized for German ARD, ZDF and RTL. If you are
  for some reason really and definitely not satisfied with my choices, edit
  colormapping.h and recompile.
