
This is a plugin for VDR.
The "MP3-Plugin" allows playback of MP3 audio files.

Original written by:
Written by:                  Stefan Hülswitt <s.huelswitt@gmx.de>
Project's homepage:          http://www.muempf.de/
Latest version available at: http://www.muempf.de/down/

See the file COPYING for license information.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

For the user manual see the MANUAL file.


Installing:
-----------

This is a special adopted version of this plugin for the VDR on
Siemens M7x0 DVB reseivers.
It was adopted by the open7x0.org team.

See http://open7x0.org for details about the project


Commandline options:
--------------------

For the plugin it's possible to give an additional configuration subdirectory
with commandline option -S/--sources, i.e. the given directory name is appended
to the default plugin config directory path.

The plugin have a commandline option -m/--mount to define the name and
location of the mount script. The default mount script is "mount.sh". This
script is called from the plugin with 2 options on the commandline. The first
is one of mount/unmount/eject/status and gives the action to perform. The
second one is the base directory as defined in "mp3sources.conf".
The script must return the exit code 0 if the action was
successful and 1 if the action failed (see the comments in the example
"mount.sh" script which comes with the archive).

The MP3 plugin maintains a cache for information scanned from song files (e.g.
ID3 tags). This information is saved to the id3info.cache file by default
located in the video directory. You can use commandline option -C/--cache to
specify a different directory for this file.

If you are using any of the networking capabilities and you have a dial-up
network, you can use the commandline option -n/--network to give a script name.
This script is called before and after any network access and receives one
option on commandline. This can either be "up" or "down", depending on if it's
before or after the network access. In the "up" case the script should not
return before the network is connected and useable. By default the plugin
assumes that network access can be done at any time without prior action.

If you want to use the cover image display, you have to provide image
in iFrame format. Usually your covers are in a common image format like e.g.
JPEG or PNG, but the MP3 plugin can only display MPEG (still) frames. 

The scripts that are provided from the open7x0 team for the pictures plugin
can be used for this.
http://www.open7x0.org/svnweb/vdr-m7x0-PLUGINS/browse/branches/unstable/pictures/scripts

Don't forget to enable the image display in the plugin setup menu.
The search order for images is:
- An image in the same directory as the song, named like the song but with the
  song extension replaced with the image format extension
  e.g. test.mp3 -> test.iFrame
- An image named "folder" with the image format extension in the same directory
  as the song (album cover).
  e.g. folder.iFrame
- An image named "folder" with the image format extension in the parent
  directory of the song (artist image).
  e.g. folder.iFrame
- An image named "background" with the image format extension in the base
  directory of the MP3 source.
  e.g. background.iFrame
For all locations the extension "iFrame" is checked.
If no image can be found, a default image is displayed (this
is included statically in the plugin).

Summary of commandline options:
-------------------------------

MP3 Plugin:
-m CMD,  --mount=CMD    use CMD to mount/unmount/eject mp3 sources
-n CMD,  --network=CMD  execute CMD before & after network access
-C DIR,  --cache=DIR    store ID3 cache file in DIR
-S SUB,  --sources=SUB  search sources config in SUB subdirectory
